hey guys welcome to part two of the
paranormal activities series explained
in part one we discussed the origins of
the evil force haunting katie and
christy
we saw that the story is centered around
a coven that brainwashes little girls
into giving up their firstborn son to a
demon called toby
in this video we'll look at the latest 3
movies where we get some time travel and
teleportation that reveals new angles of
the story
and this is the video i really wanted to
do because there are a lot more
interesting events than the first one
paranormal activity 4 is set 5 years
after the first movie
it starts out on halloween at the nelson
family here alex a high school student
is our main character along with ben
a family friend as alex takes her little
brother wyatt out for trick-or-treating
she learns about a new mysterious
neighbor that just moved in
they have a kid that's the same age as
wyatt and even though he's pretty young
they always see him walking around town
alone without his parents
there's that kid again yeah it is
all right you guys are all the way home
from the park the next evening alex ben
and their friends have a party where
they play with their xbox 360 connect
that night alex and ben go outside into
the playhouse in the garden where they
get surprised by the new kid randomly
sitting there
there's just [ __ ] everywhere wow dude
they find out his name is robbie and
send him back to his house across the
street
we cut to a skype call between alex and
ben when we suddenly hear
sirens as multiple police cars arrive at
robbie's house
are you right the explanation we're
given is that his mother is sick and
needs to go to the hospital
since the nelson family are good
neighbors they decide to take care of
her child in the meantime
so now this strange kid will stay with
alex for the next two days
he comes over and unpacks his stuff and
shows her that he has a stuffed animal
that is 100 years old and a magical fork
what does it do that's so special um
it tells the future whatever you say kid
and not long after weird things start to
happen
the next morning ben shows their skype
call to alex because he records
all of their conversations and you
recorded me sleeping
again it was my computer it didn't
launch oh my god
nothing to do with you think i just sit
here and stare at it yeah anyways in the
recording they see robbie getting into
bed with alex
and as if that's not weird enough alex's
mother reveals that robbie will stay
even longer than they initially thought
during the day wyatt and robbie are
playing in the treehouse
they tell alex that they have a secret
friend that no one but them can see
much like katie did in the past that
night they're all once again playing
with the kinect
and ben shows them something pretty cool
that they can do with it
okay here we go oh
that's awesome what's so awesome when
they watch the replay of what they
recorded they noticed the vague outline
of a person that was never there
but they just brush it off as an optical
illusion or a broken connect
the following night alex walks around
the house because she heard some noises
and of course robbie is out of bed
staring at the kinect whispering to
someone
when alex asks him what he's doing
something passes by the camera
she shows this to ben and they both
begin to grow suspicious and decide to
set up some cameras
on the days that follow we see wyatt and
robbie playing with their imaginary
friend who they called toby
then on night 6 alex looks over to
robbie's house
even though nobody should be there
multiple cars are seen parked outside
alex goes to investigate and enters
through the front gate but is quickly
confronted by someone
completely shocked she runs back to her
house later on we see that robbie drew a
bunch of weird symbols on wyatt
one of which is the symbol of the coven
that we've seen in the earlier movies
at first alex and ben think it's some
random doodles but when they noticed
that they saw the same symbols in a
previous recording they research it a
little more
they find out that it's used to welcome
a demonic possession
it also says that the ritual of
possession requires the blood sacrifice
of a virgin
you're [ __ ] you're [ __ ] too
no i'm not yes i have like three times
a few days later while robbie and white
are playing they run off to robbie's
house
knowing that there are some pretty weird
things happening over there alex goes
after them
only to find them playing in an empty
home she gets white and tries to walk
out but runs into somebody
i was supposed to be babysitting
we haven't seen katie since she stole
hunter at the end of the second film by
the way
well now that robbie's mother is back he
will no longer have to stay with alex
the next day white reveals that katie
knew that both him and robbie are
adopted and that his previous family
needs him back
night 10 comes around and we see why in
the living room talking to toby
while doing this something else is
slowly coming up behind him
as he's talking to the demon wyatt
denies that his name is hunter
no it's not my name is wyatt
it's not hunter this leads us to believe
that after the events of paranormal
activity
2 katie ran off with hunter but lost him
somehow
eventually he got adopted by a new
family who changed his name to wyatt
katie then moved in as the neighbor only
to somehow get hunter
or wyatt that evening white goes into
alex's room and makes her levitate
this shows that he's already further
involved with the coven things slowly
start to escalate when the demon traps
alex in the garage and starts the car
engine
but luckily alex manages to escape
afterwards she gets upset with her
parents because they won't believe her
when she says that it goes close the
garage door
the next day her dad decides to take her
out to dinner which leaves the mother
alone with hunter
seeing this katie breaks into their home
and with the help of toby kills the mom
out of nowhere ben rushes over to alex
to tell her all about what he learned
about the symbols
he tries to use her computer to leave
her message but that doesn't end so well
later during the night while alex and
her father drive back they see katie
taking wyatt into her home
is that your mom and wyatt right there
that's robbie's mom
the father follows katie while alex goes
back into her house
that's when she makes the discovery of
ben's dead body she runs outside and
goes into katie's house and sees her
father getting dragged away
she goes into a room and calls out for
her brother but katie hears this and
starts chasing after her
[Applause]
alex quickly flees the house and finds
her brother when she asks him to leave
with her he doesn't move
wait come on we need to go right now
come with me come
on when alex turns around she sees like
a hundred women of the cabin all
walking towards her she tries to run
away but gets killed by katie
so now the demon finally got hunter but
what actually happens after the coven
finally gets the firstborn son
well that's something that the next two
movies answer after paranormal activity
4 we got the marked ones the first movie
to really branch away from the katy
story
it gives us an almost entirely new
mystery while still adding on to the
original story
and it was surprisingly good the mark 1
starts in 2012
during the high school graduation of
jesse our protagonist the family records
the graduation and the after party at
their house
during the party we hear them mention
their deranged downstairs neighbor who
they call crazy anna
newspaper
[Music]
she lives right under me for his
graduation jesse gets some money that he
spends on a used camera to vlog with
in his recordings were introduced to one
of his friends hector
that night while jesse and hector have
fun in their home they hear weird noises
from crazy anna's apartment
they tie a gopro to a cable and let it
down a vent which allows them to see
into one of her rooms
oh she ate listen no no yeah wait wait i
see
i see he's like i see i just saw there
they see a younger woman and anna
standing there completely naked
anna then starts painting the coven mark
onto the woman's body revealing that
she's a part of the group and recruiting
new members right from her home
the next night hector and jesse want to
light a firework dangerously close to
the apartment
however they get interrupted by oscar
who comes rushing by them like he's
running away from someone
the police arrive soon after and
discover that anna has been killed
and soon after oscar goes missing one
day later while the boys are getting
high
they go into anna's apartment which is
an abandoned crime scene
they see that it's completely trashed
there they find a strange notebook about
the coven and decide to take it
suddenly oscar's brother arturo appears
and tells them to leave
back upstairs they flip through the
mysterious journal and discover that it
contains a section on time travel and
teleportation
if you build this door it's like a
you could travel through time man she
could travel through time why the hell
she's staying the shitty ass apartment
they can allegedly teleport themselves
to another time and place
if they follow a certain ritual but they
can only travel to what is called
unholy places just for fun hector jesse
and his sister marisol try it out
but it doesn't seem to work not long
after crazy things start to happen to
jesse
and this time it's different from the
other movies one morning jesse finds a
bite mark on his arm
something we've learned will not end
well later the group uses a toy that
lights up with different colors to
communicate with spirits and it actually
answers all of their questions correctly
am i holding the ace of hearts
[Music]
this proves that an entity is among them
the following night jesse and hector are
confronted by two
thugs who tried to mug them they start
beating up jesse but he's able to blast
them away with some sort of supernatural
power
soon after the guys test what kind of
things they can do with his abilities
that night they crash a party and meet
two girls they take them to jesse's
place but realize their grandmaster
there
not wanting to pass off the opportunity
jesse takes them to anna's apartment
instead
while jessie's out looking for a condom
the girl discovers a hidden door on the
floor
when she opens it she gets grabbed by an
arm
we see that oscar the boy who went
missing was down there
when jesse returns he takes the camera
and looks around the house and finds
oscar in the bathroom
oscar tells him that anna put something
evil inside of him that made him kill
her
he tells jessie that he too has the same
thing in his body as indicated by the
bite mark they have the same mark
oscar says that the only way to stop
yourself from hurting others is to kill
yourself
he then runs away after which we see him
leap to his death from a tall building
they go back into anna's apartment and
discover pictures of jessie and his
mother being pregnant with him
in the photo she's standing next to anna
as well as grandma lois from the third
movie
this means that jesse's mom was also a
part of the coven and since he's the
firstborn son he was promised to be
given up to the witches
later jesse begins to feel really unwell
and finds thin black strings he can pull
from his eyes
when he looks at himself in the mirror
for only a few frames we see jesse's
real form
which shows that he's slowly being
possessed by a demon they want to know
what's going on and decide to go to
oscar's brother arturo
with his permission they search oscar's
room and find a wall of clues
it turns out that oscar had researched
the witches and the ritual of the
firstborn son's possession
the last time i seen my brother he said
there was others like you said they were
all marked
said these witches trying to build an
army or some [ __ ]
among the research they see an article
about ali ray the only survivor from
paranormal activity too
soon after jesse begins to act even more
strange and attacks a random guy and a
sharp owner for no apparent reason
he fears that he's slowly losing control
of his body which is not exactly good
for someone with superhuman powers
marisol and hector noticed the change
and managed to meet with ally to ask her
what's going on
she tells them about the coven and how
they will use jessie in a ritual as a
vessel for a demon
the midwipes will mark an unborn male
in utero and then they wait for the baby
to mature until
he's ready to be possessed when they go
back home jesse's grandmother tries to
cleanse the evil inside him with a
religious method
but it's clear that jesse is too
powerful and he's easily able to fight
back by
levitating in mid-air and trashing their
apartment he then passes out and they
put him to bed
the next morning jesse doesn't feel any
better and almost kills his grandmother
during the evening hector and marisol
tried to go to the hospital to visit
their grandma
however their car breaks down in an
alley they see the possessed jesse
standing in the middle of the road
walking towards them he begins attacking
hector
but marisol manages to knock him out
with a baseball bat
they put the unconscious jessie in the
car and start driving
about a minute later they get into a
traffic accident with a cover member who
steals jesse and drives away
marisol finds out where they're taking
jessie by asking ally
however they clearly need help they turn
to arturo and his friend who decided to
help them
as revenge for oscar and for the first
time one of the characters actually
comes prepared
they head to the place of the ritual
which turns out to be lois's house from
the third movie
there they get attacked by the crazy
witches who are wielding knives
arturo shoots at them while hector and
marisol run into the house
even though the house is mostly empty
hector finds a room where the ritual
seems to have taken place when he tries
to show it to marisol he finds her dead
on the floor
soon after he encounters the possessed
jesse who starts chasing him
hector runs away and locks himself in a
room where the only exit is a big wooden
door with markings on it
when jesse manages to break into the
room hector is forced to use the ominous
doorway as an escape
the camera goes dark for a few seconds
after which we see that he's now in the
house of katie and mika
so he time traveled to the place where
the first movie ended there hector sees
katie walking in a transform upstairs to
get a knife
she eventually catches him and starts
screaming mika runs downstairs and
attacks him but katie stabs mika to
death
hector tries to flee but gets surprised
by the demonic jesse and drops his
camera
this brings us to the final film in the
franchise the ghost dimension where toby
is only one step away from becoming real
and walking the earth
[Applause]
this one starts in 1988 at the end of
the third film
as you probably remember this is when
lois snaps dennis backwards to kill him
lois then takes katie and christy
upstairs to meet with a man named kent
she tells the girls that he will be
their teacher and he instantly starts
talking about toby and how the girls
lives will turn out
christy you're going to grow up and
you're going to have a son
who is one of the chosen and katie your
gift
is your strength we jump to the year
2013 in santa rosa at the fleek's house
which is at the same location where the
third movie began
it's christmas time while ryan and emily
are with her daughter layla in their new
home
ryan's brother mike and their friend
skyler arrive and join them for a few
days
later while setting up the christmas
decorations they find a box of old stuff
from the previous residents
what is that
in it there's a big camera as well as
tapes from katie and christy from when
they were younger
even though they cleaned the camera it
shows all of these weird distortions
it also lets them see a strange mist in
the middle of the room which they can't
see with the naked eye
during the night they start watching the
tapes they found one of the recordings
shows kent asking christy what she sees
based on the bizarre descriptions ryan
realizes that she's describing his
daughter's current room
even though the tape was recorded at
least a decade before she was even born
she just described leela's room not oh
my god man you're so
she's describing leela's room soon after
their daughter laila starts acting
pretty strange
one late night they find her crawling
around the bushes and later ryan catches
her playing bloody mary in the bathroom
while her hand is bleeding
after they learn that the previous house
that was here mysteriously burned down
ryan gets intrigued and sets up his
cameras to see if he can find anything
during the night a dark form appears
next to leyla's bed
she then wakes up and begins talking to
him when ryan and emily see this in the
recording they ask her about it
she says that it's her friend toby then
when they see a tape where katie
mentions toby they get freaked out
these girls have grown up a little bit
and we have a ponytail hmm
all right so on night two ryan and mike
stay awake and go into layla's room
suddenly a demonic face appears in the
window and flies towards ryan
knocking him over the parents grow
increasingly worried about their
daughter's behavior but don't know what
to do
on night number four the guys watch
another tape in which katie describes
the exact room that you are
standing in i see people
brothers i
pretty sure i think they're brothers
so she can clearly see into the future
the next day they see that layla drew
some sort of doorway above her bed that
has many symbols on it similar to the
door and the marked ones
they investigate the symbols and find
out about the coven they learn that it
goes all the way back to the middle ages
and they are devil worshippers
ryan then finds out that katie actually
sold them the house the same katy they
saw in the tapes
are saying that they've never heard of
her she never worked for them
later on ryan learns about hunter's
connection to the coven and his
disappearance
he notices that hunter and layla have
the same birthday making him think that
whatever is happening at the house is
not a coincidence
they continue digging through the tapes
and discover that hunter who wasn't born
until 2006
appears in the video from 1992 and this
just leaves them completely perplexed
that night some sort of tunnel forms
above leyla's bed in the same area where
she drew the symbols as a frame
she goes inside and stays in there for a
few hours the rest of the family wake up
and search for her but can't seem to
find her
after some time layla is back on her bed
where the others are sure they've looked
before
now they've had enough and decide to
leave and go to a nearby hotel
a little while later ryan and skylar
return only to get some personal things
there skyler stumbles upon ryan's
research and finds out that the coven
uses the blood of two first borns born
on the same day in order to give a demon
a human body
when they try to leave they see the door
wide open and discover that leila walked
all the way back to the house and into
her bed
desperate for help they call the local
priest father todd he believes that
there is a way to help her
but it's very risky
we need an extermination they try this
but the demonic force seems to be too
powerful
the demon then kills father todd after
which it attacks the family
while they're fighting the demon layla
runs away again emily runs after her and
when she reaches her bedroom she enters
the tunnel above her bed
after going through it emily time
travels back to the third movie
she goes through the house but gets
confronted by a few demonic looking
children
they tell her that the ritual is already
complete toby is real
when she finds layla toby slowly
approaches emily squats in the corner
and begs for mercy and even though toby
already got what he wanted he still
kills her
and that's the end of the series oh you
got to be kidding me
and that's the end of the series okay
i'm gonna i'm gonna check this out
okay i'm here at my grandmother's
this place is super weird
[Music]
it's there
let's turn on the night vision here
nothing here
oh my god it scared me here
all right i wanted to thank you guys for
8 000 subscribers the channel's been
growing a lot recently so
thank you for watching and subscribing
but uh let's finish the video
i think even though the ghost dimension
wasn't the best movie in the franchise
it still provided a good explanation for
what happens after paranormal activity
4.
the coven gets the kids in order to use
them in a ritual to give a demon a human
body
so that's the entire paranormal activity
series explained
all the way from the coven brainwashing
katie and christy to giving up their
firstborn son
to them getting hunter to start making
toby real and finally getting leyla
which enables them to complete the
process
so let me know where you think it will
go after that anyways i hope you liked
it and that i get to see you guys in the
next video
bye